api-reference/blog-generator/introduction.mdx, before:

---
title: "Blog Meta Generator Introduction"
description: "Generate images, excerpt, category, and tags for blog posts"
---

## Overview

The GistMag Blog Meta Generator API helps you create complete blog post metadata using AI. With a single API call, you can generate:

- **Images**: Up to 3 high-quality images in different styles (realistic, illustration, abstract, minimalist, photographic)
- **Excerpt**: A concise 2-3 sentence summary of your blog post
- **Category**: An appropriate category name for your content
- **Tags**: 5-8 relevant tags for SEO and organization

## Use Cases

- **Content Creators**: Quickly generate visual assets and metadata for blog posts
- **Blog Platforms**: Automate the creation of featured images and metadata
- **CMS Integration**: Seamlessly add blog generation to your content management system
- **SEO Optimization**: Generate SEO-friendly excerpts, categories, and tags automatically

## How It Works

1. Provide your blog post title (and optionally, the full content)
2. Choose an image style preference
3. Receive generated images, excerpt, category, and tags in a single response

## Pricing

The Blog Meta Generator costs **3 credits per generation**, which includes:
- 3 AI-generated images
- 1 excerpt
- 1 category
- 5-8 tags

## Getting Started

To get started, you'll need:

1. A GistMag API key ([Get one here](https://gistmag.co.uk/dashboard/api-key))
2. Your blog post title (content is optional but recommended)
3. An image style preference

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card
    title="Generate Blog Elements"
    icon="wand-magic-sparkles"
    href="/api-reference/blog-generator/generate"
  >
    Learn how to generate images, excerpt, category, and tags
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

Commit message:

Update blog generator docs for Supabase Storage image URLs
- Update API docs to reflect Supabase Storage URLs instead of DALL-E URLs
- Update example responses to show Supabase Storage URLs
- Add section explaining Nano Banana image generation and Supabase Storage
- Update WordPress plugin docs to mention Nano Banana and Supabase Storage
- Images are now returned as public URLs from Supabase Storage

api-reference/blog-generator/introduction.mdx, after:

---
title: "Blog Meta Generator Introduction"
description: "Generate images, excerpt, category, and tags for blog posts"
---

## Overview

The GistMag Blog Meta Generator API helps you create complete blog post metadata using AI. With a single API call, you can generate:

- **Images**: Up to 3 high-quality images in different styles (realistic, illustration, abstract, minimalist, photographic). Images are generated using Nano Banana (Google Gemini) and automatically uploaded to Supabase Storage, returning public URLs for easy use.
- **Excerpt**: A concise 2-3 sentence summary of your blog post
- **Category**: An appropriate category name for your content
- **Tags**: 5-8 relevant tags for SEO and organization

## Use Cases

- **Content Creators**: Quickly generate visual assets and metadata for blog posts
- **Blog Platforms**: Automate the creation of featured images and metadata
- **CMS Integration**: Seamlessly add blog generation to your content management system
- **SEO Optimization**: Generate SEO-friendly excerpts, categories, and tags automatically

## How It Works

1. Provide your blog post title (and optionally, the full content)
2. Choose an image style preference
3. Receive generated images, excerpt, category, and tags in a single response

## Pricing

The Blog Meta Generator costs **3 credits per generation**, which includes:
- 3 AI-generated images
- 1 excerpt
- 1 category
- 5-8 tags

## Getting Started

To get started, you'll need:

1. A GistMag API key ([Get one here](https://gistmag.co.uk/dashboard/api-key))
2. Your blog post title (content is optional but recommended)
3. An image style preference

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card
    title="Generate Blog Elements"
    icon="wand-magic-sparkles"
    href="/api-reference/blog-generator/generate"
  >
    Learn how to generate images, excerpt, category, and tags
  </Card>
</CardGroup>
