api-reference/pricing.mdx, before:

---
title: Pricing
api: ""
---

# Pricing

GistMag uses a simple, credit-based pricing system. Pay only for what you use, and credits never expire.

## Credit Costs

### Alt Text Generation
- **1 credit = 1 image alt text generation**
- Works for all modes: Short, Long, and SEO-optimized
- Batch processing uses the same rate (1 credit per image)

### Text-to-Speech (TTS)
- **1 credit = 1,000 characters of text**
- Minimum charge: 1 credit (even for text under 1,000 characters)
- Includes all TTS features: voice selection, speed, pitch, volume controls

### Speech-to-Text (STT)
- **5 credits = 1 minute of audio**
- Charges are rounded up to the nearest minute
- Supports multiple audio formats (MP3, WAV, etc.)

### Background Music
- **+1 credit** when adding background music to TTS
- This is in addition to the TTS credit cost
- Applies to both basic TTS with music and batch TTS with music

## Subscription Plans

### Free Plan
- **$0/month**
- 50 credits (one-time)
- All features included
- All extensions & plugins
- Community support

### Starter Plan
- **$5/month**
- 500 credits per month
- All features included
- All extensions & plugins
- Priority processing
- Email support

### Pro Plan
- **$19/month** (Most Popular)
- 2,000 credits per month
- All features included
- All extensions & plugins
- Priority processing
- Priority support

### Business Plan
- **$38/month**
- 5,000 credits per month
- All features included
- All extensions & plugins
- Priority processing
- Priority support

### Enterprise Plan
- **$70/month**
- 10,000 credits per month
- All features included
- All extensions & plugins
- Highest priority processing
- Dedicated support

## One-Time Credit Purchases

You can also purchase credits without a subscription. Credits never expire and can be used anytime.

## Credit Rollover

- Credits from subscriptions rollover indefinitely
- Unused credits accumulate in your account
- No expiration date - use them whenever you need
- New subscription credits are added to your existing balance

## Examples

### Example 1: Alt Text Generation
- Generate alt text for 10 images = **10 credits**
- Generate alt text for 100 images in batch = **100 credits**

### Example 2: Text-to-Speech
- Convert 500 characters to speech = **1 credit** (minimum)
- Convert 2,500 characters to speech = **3 credits** (rounded up)
- Convert 2,500 characters to speech with background music = **4 credits** (3 TTS + 1 music)

### Example 3: Speech-to-Text
- Transcribe 30 seconds of audio = **5 credits** (rounded up to 1 minute)
- Transcribe 2.5 minutes of audio = **15 credits** (3 minutes × 5 credits)

### Example 4: Combined Usage
- Generate alt text for 50 images = **50 credits**
- Convert 5,000 characters to speech = **5 credits**
- Transcribe 1 minute of audio = **5 credits**
- **Total: 60 credits**

## Getting Started

1. **Sign up** for a free account to get 50 credits
2. **Choose a plan** that fits your needs
3. **Start using** the API - credits are deducted automatically
4. **Monitor usage** in your dashboard

## Need More Credits?

- Upgrade your subscription plan
- Purchase one-time credit packages
- Credits are added immediately to your account

## Questions?

Check out our [FAQ section](https://gistmag.co.uk/#faq-section) or contact support for pricing questions.

Commit message:

Add credit cost details to TTS endpoints with minimum charge examples

api-reference/pricing.mdx, after:

---
title: Pricing
api: ""
---

# Pricing

GistMag uses a simple, credit-based pricing system. Pay only for what you use, and credits never expire.

## Credit Costs

### Alt Text Generation
- **1 credit = 1 image alt text generation**
- Works for all modes: Short, Long, and SEO-optimized
- Batch processing uses the same rate (1 credit per image)

### Text-to-Speech (TTS)
- **1 credit = 1,000 characters of text**
- Minimum charge: 1 credit (even for text under 1,000 characters)
- Includes all TTS features: voice selection, speed, pitch, volume controls

### Speech-to-Text (STT)
- **5 credits = 1 minute of audio**
- Charges are rounded up to the nearest minute
- Supports multiple audio formats (MP3, WAV, etc.)

### Background Music
- **+1 credit** when adding background music to TTS
- This is in addition to the TTS credit cost
- Applies to both basic TTS with music and batch TTS with music

## Subscription Plans

### Free Plan
- **$0/month**
- 50 credits (one-time)
- All features included
- All extensions & plugins
- Community support

### Starter Plan
- **$5/month**
- 500 credits per month
- All features included
- All extensions & plugins
- Priority processing
- Email support

### Pro Plan
- **$19/month** (Most Popular)
- 2,000 credits per month
- All features included
- All extensions & plugins
- Priority processing
- Priority support

### Business Plan
- **$38/month**
- 5,000 credits per month
- All features included
- All extensions & plugins
- Priority processing
- Priority support

### Enterprise Plan
- **$70/month**
- 10,000 credits per month
- All features included
- All extensions & plugins
- Highest priority processing
- Dedicated support

## One-Time Credit Purchases

You can also purchase credits without a subscription. Credits never expire and can be used anytime.

## Credit Rollover

- Credits from subscriptions rollover indefinitely
- Unused credits accumulate in your account
- No expiration date - use them whenever you need
- New subscription credits are added to your existing balance

## Examples

### Example 1: Alt Text Generation
- Generate alt text for 10 images = **10 credits**
- Generate alt text for 100 images in batch = **100 credits**

### Example 2: Text-to-Speech
- Convert 10 characters to speech = **1 credit** (minimum charge)
- Convert 500 characters to speech = **1 credit** (minimum charge)
- Convert 999 characters to speech = **1 credit** (minimum charge)
- Convert 1,000 characters to speech = **1 credit**
- Convert 1,001 characters to speech = **2 credits** (rounded up)
- Convert 2,500 characters to speech = **3 credits** (rounded up)
- Convert 2,500 characters to speech with background music = **4 credits** (3 TTS + 1 music)

### Example 3: Speech-to-Text
- Transcribe 30 seconds of audio = **5 credits** (rounded up to 1 minute)
- Transcribe 2.5 minutes of audio = **15 credits** (3 minutes × 5 credits)

### Example 4: Combined Usage
- Generate alt text for 50 images = **50 credits**
- Convert 5,000 characters to speech = **5 credits**
- Transcribe 1 minute of audio = **5 credits**
- **Total: 60 credits**

## Getting Started

1. **Sign up** for a free account to get 50 credits
2. **Choose a plan** that fits your needs
3. **Start using** the API - credits are deducted automatically
4. **Monitor usage** in your dashboard

## Need More Credits?

- Upgrade your subscription plan
- Purchase one-time credit packages
- Credits are added immediately to your account

## Questions?

Check out our [FAQ section](https://gistmag.co.uk/#faq-section) or contact support for pricing questions.
