api-reference/tts/batch.mdx, before:

---
title: "Batch Text-to-Speech"
description: "Process long text efficiently with automatic chunking"
api: "POST /tts/batch"
---

## Overview

Process long text efficiently by automatically splitting it into chunks and combining the audio with pauses between segments. Ideal for long-form content like articles, books, or documentation.

<Endpoint method="post" url="/tts/batch" />

## Request Body

<ParamField body="text" type="string" required>
  The text to convert to speech. Can be very long (10,000+ characters).
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="language" type="string" default="en">
  Language code (e.g., "en", "es", "fr")
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="pause_duration" type="number" default="800">
  Pause duration in milliseconds between text segments
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="api_key" type="string" required>
  Your GistMag API key
</ParamField>

## Example Request

```bash
curl -X POST https://api.gistmag.co.uk/tts/batch \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "text": "This is a very long text that will be automatically split into chunks...",
    "language": "en",
    "pause_duration": 800,
    "api_key": "your_api_key_here"
  }' \
  --output output.mp3
```

## How It Works

1. Text is automatically split at sentence boundaries
2. Each segment is processed independently
3. Audio segments are combined with pauses between them
4. Final audio is normalized and exported as MP3

## Response

The response is a single MP3 audio file containing the complete text with natural pauses.

**Content-Type**: `audio/mpeg`

**Content-Disposition**: `attachment; filename=output.mp3`

## Credit Cost

**1 credit per 1,000 characters**, with a **minimum of 1 credit** for any request.

### Examples:
- 10 characters = **1 credit** (minimum charge)
- 500 characters = **1 credit** (minimum charge)
- 1,000 characters = **1 credit**
- 2,500 characters = **3 credits** (rounded up)
- 10,000 characters = **10 credits**

## Example Usage

### Python

```python
import requests

response = requests.post(
    "https://api.gistmag.co.uk/tts/batch",
    json={
        "text": "Very long text here...",
        "language": "en",
        "pause_duration": 800,
        "api_key": "your_api_key_here"
    }
)

with open("output.mp3", "wb") as f:
    f.write(response.content)
```

<Info>
  Batch processing is more efficient for long text as it handles chunking and combining automatically, ensuring natural pauses between sentences.
</Info>

Commit message:

Add detailed explanations for streaming and batch features with use cases

api-reference/tts/batch.mdx, after:

---
title: "Batch Text-to-Speech"
description: "Process long text efficiently with automatic chunking"
api: "POST /tts/batch"
---

## Overview

Process long text efficiently by automatically splitting it into chunks and combining the audio with pauses between segments. Ideal for long-form content like articles, books, or documentation.

<Endpoint method="post" url="/tts/batch" />

## Request Body

<ParamField body="text" type="string" required>
  The text to convert to speech. Can be very long (10,000+ characters).
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="language" type="string" default="en">
  Language code (e.g., "en", "es", "fr")
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="pause_duration" type="number" default="800">
  Pause duration in milliseconds between text segments
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="api_key" type="string" required>
  Your GistMag API key
</ParamField>

## Example Request

```bash
curl -X POST https://api.gistmag.co.uk/tts/batch \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "text": "This is a very long text that will be automatically split into chunks...",
    "language": "en",
    "pause_duration": 800,
    "api_key": "your_api_key_here"
  }' \
  --output output.mp3
```

## How It Works

1. **Text Splitting**: Text is automatically split at sentence boundaries (`.`, `!`, `?`) into chunks of up to 250 characters, keeping sentences intact
2. **Sequential Processing**: Each segment is processed independently and saved to temporary files
3. **Combining with Pauses**: Audio segments are combined sequentially with configurable pauses (default 800ms) between them for natural breaks
4. **Normalization**: Final audio is normalized for consistent volume across all segments
5. **Single Output**: Exported as a single high-quality MP3 file (192k bitrate)

## When to Use Batch Processing

**Use batch processing when:**
- You need a **single complete MP3 file** for download
- Processing **long-form content** (articles, books, documentation, audiobooks)
- You want **natural pauses** between text segments
- You prefer **higher quality audio** (192k bitrate)
- You're creating content for **offline playback**

**Don't use batch when:**
- You need **real-time/low latency** playback (use streaming instead)
- You want audio to start playing **immediately** (use streaming instead)

## Response

The response is a single MP3 audio file containing the complete text with natural pauses.

**Content-Type**: `audio/mpeg`

**Content-Disposition**: `attachment; filename=output.mp3`

## Credit Cost

**1 credit per 1,000 characters**, with a **minimum of 1 credit** for any request.

### Examples:
- 10 characters = **1 credit** (minimum charge)
- 500 characters = **1 credit** (minimum charge)
- 1,000 characters = **1 credit**
- 2,500 characters = **3 credits** (rounded up)
- 10,000 characters = **10 credits**

## Example Usage

### Python

```python
import requests

response = requests.post(
    "https://api.gistmag.co.uk/tts/batch",
    json={
        "text": "Very long text here...",
        "language": "en",
        "pause_duration": 800,
        "api_key": "your_api_key_here"
    }
)

with open("output.mp3", "wb") as f:
    f.write(response.content)
```

<Info>
  Batch processing is more efficient for long text as it handles chunking and combining automatically, ensuring natural pauses between sentences.
</Info>
