api-reference/tts/stream.mdx, before:

---
title: "Streaming Text-to-Speech"
description: "Stream audio in real-time as it's generated"
api: "POST /tts/stream"
---

## Overview

Stream audio in real-time as it's being generated. This is ideal for live reading applications where you want to start playing audio before the entire text is processed.

<Endpoint method="post" url="/tts/stream" />

## Request Body

<ParamField body="text" type="string" required>
  The text to convert to speech
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="language" type="string" default="en">
  Language code (e.g., "en", "es", "fr")
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="chunk_size" type="number" default="200">
  Number of characters per chunk. Smaller chunks provide faster initial response but more network overhead.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="api_key" type="string" required>
  Your GistMag API key
</ParamField>

## Example Request

```bash
curl -X POST https://api.gistmag.co.uk/tts/stream \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "text": "This is a long text that will be streamed in chunks...",
    "language": "en",
    "chunk_size": 200,
    "api_key": "your_api_key_here"
  }' \
  --output stream.mp3
```

## Response

The response is a streaming MP3 audio file. Audio chunks are sent as they're generated.

**Content-Type**: `audio/mpeg`

## Credit Cost

**1 credit per 1,000 characters**, with a **minimum of 1 credit** for any request.

### Examples:
- 10 characters = **1 credit** (minimum charge)
- 500 characters = **1 credit** (minimum charge)
- 1,000 characters = **1 credit**
- 2,500 characters = **3 credits** (rounded up)

**Content-Disposition**: `inline`

## How It Works

1. Text is automatically split into chunks at sentence boundaries
2. Each chunk is processed and converted to speech
3. Audio chunks are streamed immediately as MP3
4. Client can start playing audio while remaining chunks are being generated

## Example Usage

### Python

```python
import requests

response = requests.post(
        "https://api.gistmag.co.uk/tts/stream",
    json={
        "text": "This is a long text...",
        "language": "en",
        "chunk_size": 200,
        "api_key": "your_api_key_here"
    },
    stream=True
)

with open("stream.mp3", "wb") as f:
    for chunk in response.iter_content(chunk_size=8192):
        f.write(chunk)
```

### JavaScript

```javascript
const response = await fetch('https://api.gistmag.co.uk/tts/stream', {
  method: 'POST',
  headers: {
    'Content-Type': 'application/json',
  },
  body: JSON.stringify({
    text: 'This is a long text...',
    language: 'en',
    chunk_size: 200,
    api_key: 'your_api_key_here'
  })
});

const reader = response.body.getReader();
const chunks = [];

while (true) {
  const { done, value } = await reader.read();
  if (done) break;
  chunks.push(value);
}

// Combine chunks and play
const audioBlob = new Blob(chunks, { type: 'audio/mpeg' });
const audioUrl = URL.createObjectURL(audioBlob);
```

<Info>
  Streaming is ideal for long-form content where you want to start playback immediately rather than waiting for the entire audio to be generated.
</Info>

Commit message:

Add detailed explanations for streaming and batch features with use cases

api-reference/tts/stream.mdx, after:

---
title: "Streaming Text-to-Speech"
description: "Stream audio in real-time as it's generated"
api: "POST /tts/stream"
---

## Overview

Stream audio in real-time as it's being generated. This is ideal for live reading applications where you want to start playing audio before the entire text is processed.

<Endpoint method="post" url="/tts/stream" />

## Request Body

<ParamField body="text" type="string" required>
  The text to convert to speech
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="language" type="string" default="en">
  Language code (e.g., "en", "es", "fr")
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="chunk_size" type="number" default="200">
  Number of characters per chunk. Smaller chunks provide faster initial response but more network overhead.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="api_key" type="string" required>
  Your GistMag API key
</ParamField>

## Example Request

```bash
curl -X POST https://api.gistmag.co.uk/tts/stream \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "text": "This is a long text that will be streamed in chunks...",
    "language": "en",
    "chunk_size": 200,
    "api_key": "your_api_key_here"
  }' \
  --output stream.mp3
```

## Response

The response is a streaming MP3 audio file. Audio chunks are sent as they're generated.

**Content-Type**: `audio/mpeg`

## Credit Cost

**1 credit per 1,000 characters**, with a **minimum of 1 credit** for any request.

### Examples:
- 10 characters = **1 credit** (minimum charge)
- 500 characters = **1 credit** (minimum charge)
- 1,000 characters = **1 credit**
- 2,500 characters = **3 credits** (rounded up)

**Content-Disposition**: `inline`

## How It Works

1. **Text Splitting**: Text is automatically split into chunks at sentence boundaries (`.`, `!`, `?`) to maintain natural speech flow
2. **Sequential Processing**: Each chunk is processed independently and converted to speech
3. **Real-time Streaming**: Audio chunks are streamed immediately as MP3 (128k bitrate) as soon as they're generated
4. **Low Latency**: Client can start playing audio while remaining chunks are still being generated

## When to Use Streaming

**Use streaming when:**
- You want **low latency** - audio starts playing immediately
- Building **live reading** or **real-time applications**
- Users need to hear audio **as quickly as possible**
- You're okay with receiving multiple audio chunks that need to be combined client-side

**Don't use streaming when:**
- You need a **single complete file** for download
- You want **pauses between segments** (use batch instead)
- You prefer **higher quality audio** (batch uses 192k vs streaming's 128k)

## Example Usage

### Python

```python
import requests

response = requests.post(
        "https://api.gistmag.co.uk/tts/stream",
    json={
        "text": "This is a long text...",
        "language": "en",
        "chunk_size": 200,
        "api_key": "your_api_key_here"
    },
    stream=True
)

with open("stream.mp3", "wb") as f:
    for chunk in response.iter_content(chunk_size=8192):
        f.write(chunk)
```

### JavaScript

```javascript
const response = await fetch('https://api.gistmag.co.uk/tts/stream', {
  method: 'POST',
  headers: {
    'Content-Type': 'application/json',
  },
  body: JSON.stringify({
    text: 'This is a long text...',
    language: 'en',
    chunk_size: 200,
    api_key: 'your_api_key_here'
  })
});

const reader = response.body.getReader();
const chunks = [];

while (true) {
  const { done, value } = await reader.read();
  if (done) break;
  chunks.push(value);
}

// Combine chunks and play
const audioBlob = new Blob(chunks, { type: 'audio/mpeg' });
const audioUrl = URL.createObjectURL(audioBlob);
```

<Info>
  Streaming is ideal for long-form content where you want to start playback immediately rather than waiting for the entire audio to be generated.
</Info>
