api-reference/tts/stt.mdx, before:

---
title: "Speech-to-Text"
api: "POST /tts/stt"
description: "Transcribe audio files to text using Google Cloud Speech-to-Text"
---

<Endpoint method="post" url="/tts/stt" />

Transcribe audio files to text using Google Cloud Speech-to-Text. Supports multiple audio formats and languages.

## Request

<ParamField body="audio" type="file" required>
  Audio file to transcribe (MP3, WAV, FLAC, etc.)
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="api_key" type="string" required>
  Your GistMag API key
</ParamField>

## Response

<ResponseField name="text" type="string">
  The transcribed text from the audio file
</ResponseField>

<ResponseField name="language" type="string">
  The detected language code (e.g., "en-US")
</ResponseField>

## Credit Cost

**5 credits per minute** of audio (rounded up to the nearest minute).

For example:
- 30 seconds of audio = 5 credits (1 minute)
- 2.5 minutes of audio = 15 credits (3 minutes)

## Example Request

<CodeGroup>
```bash
curl -X POST https://api.gistmag.co.uk/tts/stt \
  -F "audio=@recording.wav" \
  -F "api_key=your_api_key_here"
```

```javascript
const formData = new FormData();
formData.append('audio', audioFile);
formData.append('api_key', 'your_api_key_here');

const response = await fetch('https://api.gistmag.co.uk/tts/stt', {
  method: 'POST',
  body: formData
});

const result = await response.json();
console.log(result.text); // Transcribed text
```

```python
import requests

with open('recording.wav', 'rb') as audio_file:
    files = {'audio': audio_file}
    data = {'api_key': 'your_api_key_here'}
    
    response = requests.post(
        'https://api.gistmag.co.uk/tts/stt',
        files=files,
        data=data
    )
    
    result = response.json()
    print(result['text'])  # Transcribed text
```
</CodeGroup>

## Supported Audio Formats

- WAV (recommended)
- MP3
- FLAC
- OGG
- Other formats supported by Google Cloud Speech-to-Text

## Notes

- The API automatically detects the language in the audio
- Audio is processed securely and not stored
- Maximum file size limits apply based on Google Cloud Speech-to-Text constraints

Commit message:

Update STT documentation to reflect OpenAI Whisper API

api-reference/tts/stt.mdx, after:

---
title: "Speech-to-Text"
api: "POST /tts/stt"
description: "Transcribe audio files to text using OpenAI Whisper API"
---

<Endpoint method="post" url="/tts/stt" />

Transcribe audio files to text using OpenAI's Whisper API. Supports multiple audio formats and automatically detects language.

## Request

<ParamField body="audio" type="file" required>
  Audio file to transcribe (MP3, WAV, FLAC, etc.)
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="api_key" type="string" required>
  Your GistMag API key
</ParamField>

## Response

<ResponseField name="text" type="string">
  The transcribed text from the audio file
</ResponseField>

<ResponseField name="language" type="string">
  The detected or specified language code (e.g., "en", "es", "fr") or "auto" if auto-detected
</ResponseField>

## Credit Cost

**5 credits per minute** of audio (rounded up to the nearest minute).

For example:
- 30 seconds of audio = 5 credits (1 minute)
- 2.5 minutes of audio = 15 credits (3 minutes)

## Example Request

<CodeGroup>
```bash
curl -X POST https://api.gistmag.co.uk/tts/stt \
  -F "audio=@recording.wav" \
  -F "api_key=your_api_key_here"
```

```javascript
const formData = new FormData();
formData.append('audio', audioFile);
formData.append('api_key', 'your_api_key_here');

const response = await fetch('https://api.gistmag.co.uk/tts/stt', {
  method: 'POST',
  body: formData
});

const result = await response.json();
console.log(result.text); // Transcribed text
```

```python
import requests

with open('recording.wav', 'rb') as audio_file:
    files = {'audio': audio_file}
    data = {'api_key': 'your_api_key_here'}
    
    response = requests.post(
        'https://api.gistmag.co.uk/tts/stt',
        files=files,
        data=data
    )
    
    result = response.json()
    print(result['text'])  # Transcribed text
```
</CodeGroup>

## Supported Audio Formats

OpenAI Whisper supports a wide range of audio formats:
- MP3
- WAV
- M4A
- FLAC
- OGG
- WebM
- And many other common audio formats

## Notes

- The API automatically detects the language in the audio (or you can specify it)
- Audio is processed securely and not stored
- Maximum file size: 25MB (OpenAI Whisper limit)
- Uses OpenAI's Whisper-1 model for high-quality transcription
